Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to show an animated, adventure,
and family film called, “James and the Giant
Peach.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
James Henry Trotter is a kind and optimistic
little boy living near the English seaside
with his loving parents.
On his seventh birthday, James’s family
celebrates by having a picnic at the beach.
As they gaze upon the clouds, his father hands
him a travel book and tells him about the
tallest building in the world, the Empire
State Building.
It’s located in a land across the Atlantic
Ocean, in a city where all dreams come true,
New York City, and that’s where all three
of them will be going one day.
But James’s dreams are cut short when one
day, an angry rhinoceros appears out of nowhere
and eats his father and mother.
As sad as James was, his troubles were just
beginning.
Now an orphan, James is sent to his two ugly,
horrible, wicked, and self-absorbed aunts,
Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker.
His aunts have a rundown house on a hill where
nothing ever grew.
In its tiny and dusty attic, James slept.
Aunt Sponge is an enormous lady with a protruding
nose and horrible toes while Aunt Spiker is
a tall, bony, woman whose cheeks cut like
a knife.
The two terrible aunts wake James up at the
crack of dawn ordering him to chop the wood,
pull the weeds, and do all the chores around
the house.
Left with no other choice, James sets upon
his tasks for the day while Aunt Sponge and
Aunt Spiker sunbathe in their ghastly sundresses
at the front lawn, too busy admiring themselves
in their handheld mirrors.
Suddenly, the silence of chopping woods catches
their attention.
Aunt Sponge finds James sitting with his travel
book and reprimands him.
Aunt Spiker snatches the book out of his hand,
accusing him of leaving, and hands it to her
sister.
The aunts scold him, telling him that he has
no other place to go, and threatens by saying
that if he leaves, the rhino will come and
eat him, just like what it did to his parents.
Aunt Sponge tears up his travel book and they
order him to stop daydreaming and get back
to work.
Later that evening, James is finally done
with his chores and climbs up the house to
see his two aunts finish all that’s left
of dinner.
Aunt Spiker teases him and tells him that
there’s something in the oven, but to James’s
dismay, it’s only a plate of two raw fish
heads.
He grabs a piece of leftover food from the
trash as he’s ordered to go back to his
room.
James eats the few potato chips left in the
trash bag and spots a spider on his window.
He lets it down and tells it to hide away
from his aunts.
After his tiny dinner, he takes out his crayons
and draws on the trash bag, missing his parents
and dreaming of the day he sees the city of
dreams.
He folds the bag into a lantern and uses the
last candlestick from his last birthday to
light it up.
He releases the lantern into the night sky,
setting it free together with his dreams.
James wakes up to Aunt Spiker screaming early
in the morning.
She has found his friend, the spider.
He takes the spider into his hands and runs
into Aunt Sponge in the doorway with the bug
spray.
They tumble down the stairs.
Aunt Spiker comes down running and hits her
sister on the face with the bug swatter.
With his two aunts distracted, James runs
outside and sets the spider free.
When he looks up, an old man in a decorated
uniform appears in front of him and seems
to know his name.
The old man tells James that the answer to
all his problems is inside a little bag and
hands him the lantern that he flew last night.
James peeks into the bag and sees thousands
of glowing green worms.
The old man tells him that they are crocodile
tongues that hold more magic than anything
else in the world.
He can use the crocodile tongues to get to
the place that he’s ever dreamed of, New
York City.
James accepts the crocodile tongues but the
old man warns him, telling him that he shouldn’t
let the tongues get away, for if they do,
they will work their magic on whoever or whatever
they meet first.
James nods his head and all of a sudden, a
strong gust of wind blows and the old man
disappears.
As James runs back up to the house, he trips,
letting loose the thousand crocodile tongues
upon the old tree that stood on the lawn.
He desperately tries to catch them, but it’s
too late.
Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker have caught up
to him and scolds him yet again.
Aunt Spiker tells her sister to beat him,
but being too lazy, Aunt Sponge says it’s
too early in the morning for a beating.
As they drag James back to the house, Aunt
Sponge spots a single peach on the old tree.
Aunt Spiker looks up shocked to see anything
other than a dead leaf on their property.
As Aunt Sponge pushes James up the tree to
get the fruit, Aunt Spiker stops them, exclaiming
that the peach is growing.
Puzzled at the absurd situation, the trio
stand back as the peach quickly grows in size,
eventually outweighing the tree itself and
resting its bottom on their lawn.
The peach has grown almost as big as the house
itself!
Suddenly, Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker come
up with a money-making scheme.
They build an enclosure around the peach and
advertise it as the greatest peach in the
world, charging a hefty fee for anyone who
wants to see it.
James watches the spectacle from his window
in his tiny attic room, a tear rolling down
his eye, as his only wish was to play with
the children outside.
Later that night, his aunts call him downstairs
as they’re counting the money and order
him to pick up the garbage outside.
Among the trash on the ground, James finds
his lantern and inside a single crocodile
tongue.
It hops its way down and hides under the peach.
His stomach growling with hunger, James takes
a bite out of the peach.
Unbeknownst to him, the crocodile tongue jumps
into his peach and he accidentally eats it.
Suddenly, a hole emerges from where he got
the piece of fruit, and with it, a light beckoning
him to come inside.
James, curious as ever, goes inside the peach
and travels through the tunnel.
As he reaches the end of the tunnel, he hears
several voices and falls through a hole.
He lands in a room full of human-sized anthropomorphic
insects.
The kind-hearted Mrs. Ladybug, the old Mr.
Grasshopper, the strong-willed Mr. Centipede,
the blind Mr. Earthworm, the mysterious Ms.
Spider, and the deaf Glowworm.
James learns that the insects have lived on
the hill for decades and are planning to escape
the clutches of Sponge and Spiker.
He tells the group that he’s scared of leaving
because the rhino might eat him, but Mr. Grasshopper
assures him that he has never seen a single
rhino on that miserable hill.
The insects share with James their dream life
and he realizes they all have the same goal,
to go out to the city where all dreams come
true.
Their jolly gathering is interrupted when
Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker call out for James.
Mr. Centipede climbs outside the peach and
starts sawing the peach’s branch with his
sharp claws.
The peach finally breaks loose from the tree,
crushing Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker who have
taken refuge in their car.
Much to the aunts’ dismay, the giant peach
rolls down the hill, making its way through
the town, and then bouncing off the local
church.
It flies into the air, rolling down and down
into the farmlands until it reaches the end
of the cliff and falls down into the ocean.
After the bugs regain their composure, they
go outside the peach to inspect their situation.
They find themselves floating in the middle
of the Atlantic Ocean.
The bugs wonder about what they’re going
to do now when James reaches into his coat
pocket and finds his travel book intact!
He opens it up and sees the peach on the map,
already on its way to New York City.
The group decides to head for the city of
dreams and tries to come up with a way to
travel.
Just then, James comes up with an idea.
They’re going to catch and use the seagulls
to fly their peach all the way to New York.
Using a reluctant Mr. Earthworm as bait, James
manages to catch one seagull and tie it up
with Ms. Spider’s thread.
Before they can catch the other birds, they
hear a deep rumbling coming from the ocean.
All of a sudden, a great mechanical shark
emerges from the water.
The shark sets its eyes on the peach and is
coming for them.
James asks for Ms. Spider’s net as Mr. Centipede
wiggles Mr. Earthworm to get the seagulls’
attention.
As the birds dive forward, James traps them
with the net and they tie the rest of the
threads unto the birds.
They set the seagulls loose and the force
lifts the peach up into the air.
But they’re not free from the shark yet.
The shark launches an arrow and drags the
peach towards it.
It shoots several torpedo sharks, cutting
loose a few of their birds.
James hops on to Mr. Grasshopper and they
catch the birds before they can escape while
Mrs. Ladybug knocks out the rest of the torpedo
sharks.
Ms. Spider hammers out the arrow, saving Mr.
Centipede, and sending the arrow back to the
mechanical shark.
Its own arrow ties itself around the shark,
sending it to overdrive and causing it to
explode.
The bugs celebrate on top of the peach and
thank James for his brilliant idea.
They set their course and head for New York.
As they travel, James reassures an insecure
Mr. Earthworm.
He tells the worm that if he finds himself
in a bad situation, he remembers what his
parents used to tell him, to look at them
another way, in a more positive light.
The peach flies high above the clouds and
their journey is long and tiring.
Soon enough, the bugs grow hungry, especially
Mr. Centipede who starts hallucinating food.
After fighting with Mr. Grasshopper over a
crumb of soda bread, James insists that they
don’t need to fight for food.
Their whole ship is a piece of food!
It’s a giant peach after all.
They have enough food for five voyages.
The crew feasts on their newfound meal and
end up with full stomachs.
Later that night, Ms. Spider tucks James into
a woven nest.
He learns that Ms. Spider was the spider on
his window that he saved from his two terrible
aunts.
She reassures the little boy, removing his
doubts and fears, and soon enough, James drifts
off to sleep.
He dreams of himself as a caterpillar with
his two wicked aunts in their rickety car
hunting him down with a bug spray that turns
into a large and terrifying rhino.
When James wakes up, his face is covered in
snowflakes.
He goes on top of the peach and finds the
crew lost in the middle of a frozen ocean
with shipwrecks.
He sees Mr. Centipede and Mr. Grasshopper
fighting each other.
Mr. Grasshopper accuses the centipede of getting
them lost.
The bugs confront the centipede, saying that
if he had indeed traveled the world, then
why did they end up getting lost.
Mr. Centipede caves in and admit that he never
traveled the world, but he did spend most
of his time between the pages of a National
Geographic magazine.
Mr. Grasshopper kicks him in the face out
of anger and tells the crew that they need
a compass if they want to get out of this
frozen place.
James asks if there’s a compass onboard
one of the ships.
Mr. Grasshopper says that there probably is,
but only a fool would venture out into the
icy waters.
Mr. Centipede hears this and hoping for redemption,
jumps into the freezing sea.
James and Ms. Spider follow to save him.
They dive into the deep waters and find themselves
among a pirate’s treasure trove.
Meanwhile, Mr. Centipede spots a compass in
the hands of a pirate captain.
He takes the compass, but all of a sudden,
the skeletons come alive.
James and Ms. Spider reach the ship and see
the skeletons torturing the centipede.
Before they could cut the bug in half, James
intervenes and kicks the pirate.
Ms. Spider joins in and kicks the rest of
the pirates.
A game of catch for the compass ensues, with
each side snatching the prize from one another.
Free from his ropes, Mr. Centipede catches
the compass and hands it to James and Ms.
Spider.
The bugs on the peach pull on the thread,
pulling James and Ms. Spider to safety.
Mr. Centipede jumps off to fight the rest
of the pirates.
When they resurface, Ms. Spider jumps back
into the water.
Just then, the centipede’s hat floats up.
Fearing the worst, Ms. Spider stands back
in horror as the pirate captain surfaces,
but it turns out, it’s Mr. Centipede, alive
and well wearing the pirate’s hat!
The bugs welcome back their friend, now having
redeemed himself.
With their compass, they set sail for the
big city.
In the evening, Mr. Grasshopper relieves Mr.
Centipede of his steering duty.
James looks at his map, seeing that they’re
almost at their dream destination when he
hears the sound of a violin.
He joins Mr. Grasshopper as the insect plays
some songs for him.
He reminds the little boy to brighten up because
if it weren’t for him, they wouldn’t have
gotten very far.
He doesn’t need to feel lonely because they
are his new family now.
Just then, they hear a foghorn blowing from
below.
They look down and see the clouds part, revealing
the shining city of New York and Lady Liberty.
Their celebration is cut short by a strong
gust of wind that blows off their compass,
setting them off course.
The nearby clouds have now turned into a storm
in the form of a rhino.
Thunder booms, lightning crackles, as the
rhino marches towards them.
The bugs climb into the rigging but James
chooses to face the beast.
He remembers what his parents used to tell
him.
Look at it another way.
He screams at the rhino, telling the beast
that he’s not afraid of it.
He bravely faces the rhino as the lightning
strikes the peach, cutting the rigging, and
sending the peach down from the skies.
James wakes up and coughs out the crocodile
tongue that he ate.
He finds himself transformed into his human
self and alone inside the peach.
He climbs out of the fruit and sees the shining
city of New York below him.
He looks for the Empire State Building, unaware
that he’s actually sitting right on top
of it.
Down on the streets, juices coming from the
peach disrupt the citizens.
A child calls out from the balcony, telling
an officer that there’s a boy out there.
The officer calls the station and asks for
the biggest crane in the city.
The crane arrives and begins to lift off the
peach.
One of the crane workers tells James that
he’s sitting on top of the Empire State
Building.
James celebrates but feels sad that his family
isn’t with him.
By the time the peach is on the streets, a
large crowd of homeowners and journalists
have gathered.
Suddenly, the crowds part to reveal a wet
and smashed-up car.
From the car emerges his two wicked aunts.
Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker are wet, having
crossed the Atlantic in their beat-up car.
They walk towards James, pretending to be
caring relatives.
They hand the officer a photograph, confirming
that they’re the original peach owners,
and try to whisk the boy away.
James insists that he’s the original owner
of the peach and not them.
The aunts resist the urge to gauge his eyes
out and lie to the officer, telling him that
James is a chronic liar.
Enraged, James stands on top of the truck
and begins telling the crowd his story.
How they attached it to a hundred seagulls
and how they few it over the ocean.
His aunts laugh at his story, suggesting that
it’s something he dreamed up.
James stands by on his story, saying that
all things started out as dreams, but he’s
here and he’s made it.
The wicked aunts still insist on bringing
him back, but the boy stands his ground.
He screams at his aunts telling him that he’s
not going with them to be beaten and starved.
The crowd gasps in horror at the revelations.
His aunts’ patience has run thin as they
grab an ax and begin smashing the truck.
Just then, a light falls down from the sky,
James’s bug family has arrived!
They land on top of the peach, ready to help
their little friend.
Ms. Spider throws James a string and he uses
it to round up his two aunts.
They pull them up in the air and spin the
web around them, muffling their mouths of
their screams.
The officer watches in awe as he realizes
that James was telling the truth all along.
James climbs up the peach and introduces the
crowd to his family.
He then gives the peach for the crowds to
feast on.
The people eat the peach right down to the
pit.
When it was done, they set up the pit in Central
Park, where James Henry Trotter lived with
his family, telling his adventures to all
his friends and anyone willing to hear.